Data warehouse have defined the data requirements,
while data lakes do not have any such requirements.
Data warehouse work best with structured data.
Data lakes can be used for all sorts of data.
Data warehouse wall has matured.
It has been out there for a few decades now.
Data lake is a relatively new and tech is still maturing.
After data is processed,
it is loaded in data warehouse,
whereas raw data can be loaded in data lakes.
Data warehouses are much less agile compared to data lakes.
Data warehouses are expensive storages compared to data lakes which are cheaper.
Data warehouse serve use cases of business professionals,
whereas data lakes help data scientists.
When should you use data warehouse and when should you use data lakes?
When you have unstructured and structured data
from various company data sources use data lake.
When you have historical data that has been
structured to fit a relational database schema,
use a data warehouse.
When you need cost-effective big data storage, use data lake.
When you need to store data to run analytics for business decisions, use data warehouse.
Data lake users are data scientist and engineers.
Data warehouse users are data analyst and business analyst.
Data lakes are good for storing huge data and
big data analytics like deep learning and real-time analytics.
Data warehouse are good for smaller set of data compared to data lake and are
used for typical read-only queries that aggregate and summarize data.
Data lakes store all data that might be used.
It can take up to petabytes.
Data warehouses store data that is relevant for analysis.
Neither is better.
There are specific scenarios for each one.
Most enterprises adopt a hybrid approach.
Where they catch all their data in a data lake,
and build ETL on top of it and that ETL fits to a data warehouse.